Again, it's useful to
consider what recent startups
look like to get a sense of
disruption versus
incremental advantage.
Take for example Blend.
Blend is a cloud-based
software firm
based in San Francisco,
which essentially allows those
who are seeking
mortgages applicants to
share financial data
with lenders to cut
down on the dead weight
cost of approvals,
seeking for example
real-time financing.
On a daily basis,
Blend reports that it
processes more than
a billion dollars.
Now by the way as you
might expect is expanding
its business model to
market services and products
like homeowners insurance.
Reportedly, Blend received
about a $160 million of
investment funding from
some well-known
venture capitalists
like Greylock Partners
and Lightspeed,
with a site evaluation
of $500 million.
Lending Home is
a lending platform,
what we call
Robo-lending offering
intermediate term loans
for active participants,
some would call
those house flippers.
Those are essentially
underwritten
by accredited investors
or essentially
millionaire level providers of
capital through the platform,
as well as
institutional investors
and one might wonder
hedge funds and so on.
Lending home has
funded more than $3.5
billion in loans according
to what it's reported,
having received
almost a $170 million in
VC funding from the well-known
Foundation Capital,
which I believe also funded
many other successful companies
including Netflix
and Ribbit Capital,
the valuation being
around a billion dollars.
Open Door is a company relying
on big data technologies,
artificial intelligence
algorithms to
value homes and to buy them
in almost two dozen cities,
charging the seller and
fixing up and
reselling those homes.
One of the long-term
service providers
and stalwart in the
realistic technology areas,
Zillow, has also
entered the business.
About a billion dollars in
funding with about 400 million
from SoftBank at
evaluation of $1 billion.
Substantial players
in different parts of
the value chain providing
different kinds of services,
either adding substantial value
or disrupting
an ancient industry.